SplineKlang is a musical collaboration between Matt Klassen and Greg Dixon that originates with the spline modeling synthesis methodologies developed by Klassen.  The project evolved out of creative meetings where Klassen shared his synthesis research with Dixon and the two composers outlined ways that the work could be used in a composition.  There were three distinct phases to the spline modeling process:  1) tone and timbre development through modeling of monophonic instrument sounds with cycle interpolation, 2) melodic contour generation from spline models of cycles, and 3) polyphonic cycle generation of new tones which fed back into the previous two phases.  The third phase grew out of some ideas and questions of Dixon’s, which inspired Klassen to generate new materials focusing on the novel approach of polyphonic cycles. The collaborators recognized that there was an enormous array of possibilities for development of musical material from just a few audio samples. The resulting work develops these sounds in a variety of ways using classic compositional techniques such as pitch transposition, time reversal, creative mixing, time stretching and time compression. The work also explores granular synthesis processing to obtain a wide variety of sound from this minimal set of samples. 

Matt Klassen began studies of classical guitar at age 12 in Canada, and participated in masterclasses and competitions from age 14 to 18 in his country of origin the United Kingdom, as well as the United States and Puerto Rico.  During this period he also developed a keen interest in new music, through the Vancouver New Music Society and his teacher Michael Lorimer.  Matt performed the West Coast premiere of Shadows, for solo guitar, by Leslie Bassett in a recital in Seattle in 1981.  At the University of Arizona, Matt focused on mathematics, completing his Ph.D. in 1993, specializing in number theory and algebraic geometry. His thesis explored the problem of algebraic points of low degree on algebraic curves, such as Fermat curves.  This work led to a joint paper with Olivier Debarre in Crelle's  Journal für die reine und angewandte Mathematik in 1994, which generalizes Fermat's Last Theorem to a (still unproven) conjecture on algebraic points. After some exploration of some non-associative structures on curves, Matt’s career turned to applied mathematics in 2001, including computer graphics and geometric modeling.  He also began to teach Digital Signal Processing and to do research on audio signal modeling with splines.  In 2012 he developed a course on Mathematics of Music as part of the new undergraduate music curriculum at DigiPen Institute of Technology in Redmond, Washington.  This led to research in music theory, which Klassen presented at MCM 2019 in Madrid, on constraint-based systems of seventh chords.  Further work produced papers on spline modeling of audio signals with applications to timbre and melodic contours, presented at MCM 2022 and 2024.  During this time Matt developed a collaboration with composer and colleague Greg Dixon, as well as continuing his role as an active musician in the Seattle area, performing with the guitar ensemble SEGE on both classical guitar and baroque theorbo.  
